Subtitles by explosiveskull
Resync by GoldenBeard
Colored by novabros
(camera shutter clicks)
man on radio: The Torrance Tornado smoked
the mile in four minutes, 21.3 seconds.
Zamperini is now officially the fastest
high school runner in American history.
(starter pistol fires)
(crowd cheering)
(bomb whistling)
man on radio: This is the Green Hornet.
We're going down!
Mayday! Mayday! Mayday!
- (airplane buzzing)
- (machine gun fire)
(crowd cheering)
(man shouting in Japanese)
(horns honking)
(man continues shouting)
Mr. Zamperini,
good morning.
- Sightseeing today?
- No.
Shall I call a taxi?
There's no need.
I'll walk.
Do you know the way?
It's not my first time
in Tokyo.
Mr. Zamperini?
Robert Trumbull. Thank you for
allowing me to join you today.
I was always a fan
of Time magazine.
You know, my mother saw you
at the Olympics in '36.
She was thrilled to hear
I'd be meeting with you.
These men did
terrible things to you.
What are you gonna
say to them?
Where's Watanabe?
Where's "The Bird"?
(radio plays big band jazz)
man: All right, now... now
can we get out of the car?
- (women laughing, chattering)
- man: Hey!
woman: Oh!
(women laughing)
(speaking Italian)
Ma, Ma, Ma, Ma!
You're gonna kiss me to death.
I can't believe that it's you
and that you're actually home.
He's home, all right.
We were so worried that you would
be all skinny and-and worn out.
Oh, what, me?
No, I'm in great shape.
Can you believe the army
told us you were dead?
Yeah, so much
for military intelligence.
The newspaper said
they hurt you.
Mom, that was just the reporter making
stuff up to try and sell newspapers.
Pop, you knew I was
comin' home, didn't you?
- Yeah, of course.
- Of course!
- Of course! We all did.
- Mm-hmm.
- (speaking Italian)
- Let's go.
(Italian)
(speaks Italian)
Don't step on the grass!
- Come!
- Ah.
You okay?
- Never been better.
- (laughing)
I'll see you inside.
And thank you, Father,
for bringing our Louie home.
(speaking Italian)
Amen.
Ah! (speaking Italian)
(chattering, faint)
Hmm. On the raft,
day after day,
we were talking our heads
off, killing time.
And I was always braggin'
about Ma's cooking.
- (laughs)
- Yeah, and the guys, they would...
They would make me describe every
dish, you know, every sauce,
every pinch of spice, everything, all
the details, over and over again,
every single day.
- And you know what their favorite was, Ma?
- What?
- Your gnocchi.
- Hey!
(cheering, applauding)
What is this, Christmas?
Every Christmas
since you've been gone.
And all your birthdays.
Three years' worth.
Here you go.
What are these, hmm?
Letters. 2,000 of them.
And why are people
writing me letters?
They want to know if you're going
to run in the London Olympics.
Ma: You are a hero, Louie.
They got me confused
with some other fellow, Ma.
- Aw.
- I don't think so.
(woman on radio singing jazz)
- Ma: Cardarelli!
- Ah, Louise.
- Buona sera.
Louie! Louie, come talk
to Father Cardarelli.
(chuckles)
Thank you, Mama.
Mwah!
Bless you, Louis.
Welcome home.
- Thank you, Padre.
- All of Torrance was praying for your safe return.
- Well, that's swell.
- It's a miracle you survived.
Miracles didn't save my tail feathers,
Padre. A couple of atomic bombs did that.
No. Don't discount
God's role in your journey.
Don't worry, Padre.
I give him all the blame.
Hey, Ma, they're playing
our favorite song. Come on!
Louis, Louis. God's not to
blame for your suffering.
Thanks, Padre.
Hey, whoa! No! Play it again!
Play it again.
Louie, I have
a surprise for you.
It's how we found out
you were still alive.
man: Japanese have released a
recording of an American prisoner
they claim is Olympian
Louie Zamperini.
Louis: Hello, Mother.
And Father.
Relatives and friends.
This is your Louie talking.
Through the courtesy
of the authorities here,
I'm broadcasting this
personal message to you.
Turn it off.
And this will be the first time
in two-and-a-half years
that you will have
heard my voice.
Turn it off.
- I am sure it's...
- (record scratches)
(gasping)
Dad kept the oil changed
for ya.
He drove it around the
block once a week.
Yeah.
Well, I didn't think I'd ever
see this old wreck again.
- (chuckles)
- Hmm.
- It's a work in progress. You'll get it tuned up.
- Ah, Pete.
Now you are always seein' the
potential in things, you know,
even your baby brother.
I just made you lay off
those candy bars.
No. Mm-mmm.
No, sir, you turned me
into a running machine.
But I will tell you
this much.
See, when those... those B-29s,
they came flying over the camp,
they dropped Hershey bars,
you know,
and I couldn't
help myself.
You ever see what chocolate
does to your guts
after a couple of years
of moldy rice?
It ain't pretty.
(laughs)
Hmm.
You know that Sunday
Pearl Harbor happened?
- Yeah.
- I was eatin' waffles.
(chuckles)
I was on my way
to the golf course.
They said that we were
at war, you know,
but it didn't feel
like war, you know?
Not to me.
It wasn't until I was
stationed in San Diego.
One day this hospital ship
comes steamin' in.
They were carryin'
these... all these guys
missin' legs and arms.
They were... They were
all torn up, blind, burnt.
You know, that's when
the war became real to me.
And now they say
that it's over.
But any second,
I just keep feeling
like this...
klaxon horn's gonna go off
and it's
"Man your battle stations."
Maybe the war's not over
just 'cause they say it is.
Hey, come on.
Let's, uh... Let's head in.
It's late.
Yeah, I'll be in soon.
(laughs)
Ah, you can't help
but be a big brother, can ya?
It's a life sentence.
(bomb whistles, explodes)
(wood creaking)
(water flowing)
(cackling)
Don't look at me!
- (grunts)
- (panting)
- (knocks)
- Rise and shine, knucklehead. Breakfast is ready.
Hey, Louie.
Good to have you home.
- Louie!
- Hey, welcome back, Louie. Lookin' good.
- man: Louie! Hey!
- woman: Hey, Louie!
Yeah, Mr. Louie.
(laughing)
Oh, hi.
man: Hey, who wants a shot
on me honoring the return
of Torrance's favorite son,
Louie Zamperini?
- To Louie.
- To you!
Hey, no, thanks, Reggie.
He's good.
Come on, what are...
What are you, my shadow?
You got some brass waitin'
for you back at the house.
- Come on. I'll drive.
- What do they want?
They're lookin'
for their hero.
Yeah? Sorry, guys.
Duty calls, huh?
- To Louie!
- Thank you, boys.
Gotta go see the brass.
man: Sales of war bonds have
taken a big dip since V-J Day.
We need your help
to juice things up.
All you have to do is shake
hands, make a little speech.
- Something upbeat.
- Well, I've always done most of my talking with my feet.
(laughs) That's a
snappy way to put it.
Yeah, I might be able
to use that.
Uh, I'd like to get a few shots
with Captain Zamperini's family.
(man on microphone) Ladies and
gentlemen, Louie Zamperini!
(audience applauding)
Louis: I was proud to represent my
country in Berlin in the 1936 Olympics,
and, well, I sure am proud to represent
my country here today in Philadelphia.
Now, when the brass
asked me to do this,
I... I told them that I've always
done most of my talking with my feet.
(laughing)
(Louis on microphone)
Hello, Saint Louis.
Those bills,
well, they keep on comin' in,
so I'm gonna need you
to keep buying war bonds.
- Thank you so much for havin' me!
- (audience applauds)
Everyone always asks me
the same question.
They wanna know how do you survive 47
days on a raft in the Pacific Ocean.
- You talk about food.
- (laughing)
Now, I would describe to the boys how
my ma would cook my favorite dishes.
Well, I'd get 'em droolin'.
(chuckles)
Mmm. Mmm.
Sorry about that.
Uh, um...
Uh, we talked...
We talked about girls.
Uh, Rita Hayworth.
Hey, how many... how many
polka dots on that swimsuit?
I counted every single
polka dot on that pinup.
It's 89.
Eighty-nine polka dots.
I counted every single...
You know, sometimes I wish I was one
of those polka dots. (laughing)
- (audience murmuring)
- man: He's drunk.
Uh, the war might be over,
but, uh...
but the bills are still comin' in, so
just keep buyin' those bonds, folks.
Thanks. All right.
(one person clapping)
(grunts)
(toilet flushes)
"Sometimes I wish
I was a polka dot."
Yeah.
Sorry about that.
(grunts)
You need a snort before a speech to calm
you down? I got no trouble with that.
But you been getting soused in the
club car on the train every night.
What's goin' on with you?
It's nothing.
It's just hard to get a good night's
sleep on the road, that's all.
When you get home, I want you to
go see my friend, Dr. Bailey.
Right now, I'm giving you
three weeks R and R in Florida.
Miami Beach.
Three weeks? Starting when?
Soon as you can get a taxi
to the station.
Get yourself a suntan
and lay off the hooch.
That's an order.
Thank you.
- Hey there, gorgeous.
- Hello.
(piano playing light jazz)
Well, I didn't know they served
"I-talians" in this joint.
- Harry! Hey!
- Ha! Hey!
- (laughing)
- Long time no see!
It is so good to see you.
Mr. Tornado himself.
- When'd you blow in?
- Just a couple hours ago.
That is fantastic.
Fantastic.
- What are you drinkin'?
- Uh, ginger ale.
Ginger ale? What, are you trainin'
for the next Olympics or somethin'?
Uh, barkeep!
Two Cuba Libres, por favor.
- Well, you don't look worse for wear.
- Well, you know what?
- I'm alive. That's all that matters.
- Damn right.
Oh. Oh, wow.
So many dames.
So little time.
Well, they will keep you
on your toes.
Yeah, I had one steppin'
on my toes last night.
Took this hat-check girl
out for dinner.
You know, steak, lobster,
the whole thing.
Twenty-five bucks later, she
asks to use the ladies' room.
- I haven't seen her since.
- (laughing)
Ah, gracias.
Drink up, pal. We got a lotta dolls
to meet and a lotta places to see.
So, there I am at the
Hollywood Christmas Parade,
standing outside
this store.
This big old cowboy rides up
on this big old horse,
and he says, "Hey, son,
you mind watchin' my horse?"
I'm like, "Sure,
I'll watch your horse."
I look at the saddle...
red rhinestones, "Trigger."
It was Roy Rogers! I was
watchin' Roy Rogers' horse.
Hey, did I tell you about the time I split
an ice cream cone with Lana Turner?
Right down the middle. Hey, I need
a little help over here, pal.
Doin' all the work
by myself.
What are you lookin' at?
Oh, wow.
Be still, my heart.
Good eye, Lou.
We're just gon...
Oh, all right.
Good afternoon, ladies.
You wouldn't happen to be lookin' for two
he-men to round out your party, would you?
Sure. Do you know
where we can find any?
Oh! Oh, you really know
how to shoot a guy down.
- (chuckles)
- Oh!
She got me, Lou.
Tell my mother I love her.
I think your friend
needs medical attention.
Yeah,
I'm not a psychiatrist.
Thanks a lot, pal.
Harry: How ya doin'?
You're Louis Zamperini,
aren't you?
- Hello.
I read about you in the papers,
saw you in the newsreels.
Well, it's nice to meet you.
Cynthia Applewhite.
(chuckles)
- "Do you know how to change a tire?"
- Oh.
I turn around.
It's Lana Turner sittin' on the
curb, eating an ice cream cone.
And I tell her, "Hey, I don't
know how to change a tire."
- Your friend is very entertaining.
- He sure thinks so.
When I was a kid,
I lived near Torrance.
You're kidding me.
You still have the scars from
where those runners spiked you?
- Yeah, they got me pretty good.
- Mmm. And that?
Uh, Jap did that one.
Thank you.
For what?
For preserving the free world
for silly girls like me.
- I think it was worth it.
- (chuckles)
Um...
- Hey, would you like to...
- Yes.
(laughing)
What took you so long to ask?
- You couldn't tell?
- I don't know.
- I guess I'm a little rusty.
- Mmm.
(laughing)
Do you always take girls
fishing on the first date?
What, your mother
wouldn't approve?
My mother only likes
fellows I don't.
She wants me to marry someone
rich and predictable.
You mean like that guy
in the Caddy convertible?
How do you know that?
I saw you
leaving with him.
Huh.
Quite the fisherman,
aren't you?
- (line reeling) -Whoa! I
think I got a submarine.
- Hey, hold on. Here we go.
- (squeals)
- Just keep your rod tip up.
- Okay.
Let your line play out.
It's all right.
(giggling)
And hold on tight.
You hold on tight,
or I'm gonna end up in Havana.
- That was so much fun.
- Yeah.
Not bad
for your first time.
My arms feel like lead.
What do you think it was?
That is hard to tell.
- Maybe a redfish.
- Mmm.
Why do the good ones
always seem to get away?
You know, I've been asking myself
that question a very long time.
- (hums)
- (chuckles)
man: A monster created
by a man they called mad.
Listen, I just thought that you'd be
too highbrow for House of Dracula.
I love monster films.
I watch them all the time.
Oh. Hey, you know what I love about comin'
to the picture show during the day?
- What?
- Makes me feel like I'm playin' hooky from school.
(laughing) Just a juvenile
delinquent at heart.
You got that right.
announcer: Halfway around
the world in Tokyo,
another group was tried.
Japan's Pearl Harbor
Premier Hideki Tojo
led a list of 25 defendants accused
of war crimes and atrocities.
After a two-year trial,
he was hanged for his acts.
Brigadier General
Harvey Reynolds...
You thought you were free?
(cackling)
I will never leave you.
announcer: ...ceremony General
MacArthur expresses a wish.
Let us pray that peace
be now restored to the world
and that God
will preserve...
(exhales)
- Louie. Are you okay?
- Yeah. Yeah.
I'm all right.
I imagine it's hard
to watch some of that.
Come on.
Let's get out of here.
Did you pray while you
were off fighting the war?
Oh, no. No.
Begging is more like it.
Yeah, it's... I didn't pay
much attention in mass.
I pray all the time.
You're a prayer
answered for me.
Well,
you better not just be
something I'm dreaming.
I'm gonna be very ticked off
if I wake up and you're gone.
- (laughing)
- Ow!
- What was that for?
- Waking you up.
See, I'm still here.
Yes, you are.
- (squeals, laughs)
- Ah.
Come on, Tarzan!
(squeals, laughing)
(squeals)
Marry me.
What?
In a week, I gotta go back on
the road pitching war bonds,
and... I'm not leaving here
without you.
Yeah, that sounds more like a
kidnapping than a marriage proposal.
You can go your whole life without ever meeting
the person you're supposed to be with,
but you're the one!
Look, we are meant
to be together.
I'm not letting go.
(chuckles)
I'll race you for it.
Beat me to the lifeguard
stand, and I'll marry you.
You know I hold the national high
school record for the mile, right?
Only looks like about 50 yards, and I've
been outrunning boys my whole life.
And if I lose?
Then you lose.
(laughing)
You ready?
(laughs) Come on!
- Right here?
- Yeah.
On your mark.
Get set.
Go!
(laughing)
- You win.
- (laughing)
(laughing)
Louis: Well, see,
I was the Tornado.
- Now I'm just the Torrance Tortoise.
- You're a great runner.
- You just need to get back out on the track.
- (speaks Italian)
It means
I'm past my prime.
I guess I should start
taking Italian lessons.
(chuckles)
That's our church.
How did you know?
You told me you went to
Sunday school here, remember?
Thank you.
This whole "For better
or for worse" thing
and "In sickness
and in health..."
You mean it?
You sure
you wanna do this?
Yeah.
(chuckles)
I'm here for you.
Not the officer.
Not the hero.
You.
I love you, Louie.
(bell chiming)
- Congratulations!
- Take care, lovebirds!
man: Whoo!
(giggling)
(man laughs) Have fun!
man 2: Beautiful.
(group cheers)
(all shouting)
(cans rattling)
(door closes)
I wonder when they're gonna
fix that darn elevator.
- The water won't turn off.
- What?
Oh. Here.
You just gotta hunker down on it.
Right.
(grunts)
- Oh! Whoa, whoa!
- (squeals)
Okay, come here.
Hold that. Hold that.
Hold that. Oh. Here we go.
Where is it?
Here it is.
I got it. I got it.
(laughing)
What's so funny?
Look at you.
(laughing)
- Come here. Come here.
- (laughing) I know how to use this.
Did I tell you...
Ah, come here!
You're not gettin' away.
Yeah, all right.
Mmm.
(Louis laughing)
(groans)
You want to kill me?
(laughs)
- (shouting)
- (laughing)
(gasping)
No! No, no!
She cannot save you.
I will destroy you both.
- (Louis screaming)
- (Watanabe laughing)
(grunts)
man: Mr. Zamperini, Major
Zeigler asked that we meet
because many of our combat veterans are
suffering from exhaustion and psychoneurosis.
That doesn't sound like something
a shot of penicillin will fix.
No, I'm afraid not.
These men are waking up
screaming, sobbing,
lashing out.
Are you sleeping well?
Are you having any...
night sweats or nightmares?
Nothing I can't handle.
(chuckles) Look, Doc, unless you
can help me find a job, I...
I just don't think
there's much you can do for me.
What is said in here
is just between you and me.
Your mental health is just as important
as your physical well-being.
(chattering)
Excuse me. Hi. I'm here to
apply for the delivery job.
Thanks.
(up-tempo instrumental plays)
man: America's best runners competed
in the New York state championship
with their eyes set
on making the Olympic teams
for the '48 games
in London.
Athletes from around the globe are
training for their chance at the gold ring
as the world turns its eyes from war
to victory on the track and field.
Oh, no, no, no!
Oh, my... Oh, no.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh. (chuckles)
I wish they'd
fix that elevator.
I don't trust it
even when it does work.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
I'm Cynthia Zamperini.
Lila Johnson.
I-I saw you movin' in.
Uh, your husband
is a pretty famous man.
Lucky for us the landlord
recognized Lou.
Everywhere we went, there were nearly
a hundred people on the waiting list.
I'm at the end of the hall
if you need anything.
- Thank you.
- You're welcome.
And just drop that basket
off anytime, honey.
It looks like you've been
running barefoot on hot coals.
I have to get used to it.
You know, I can't get to
London with pretty feet.
Are you serious?
I got some old scores
to settle.
(laughing)
What's this?
If you're gonna train for London,
you have to do it right.
We'll start at 6:30
every morning.
Yes, dear.
- (chuckles)
- "Yes, dear."
That's what husbands
are supposed to say
when their wives
tell them to do something.
- "Yes, dear."
- Yes, dear.
I thought you said 6:30.
(chuckles)
Pete says to just run a
steady pace and not sprint,
not until your body
gets used to running again.
- Oh, you talked to Pete about this?
- Of course.
I didn't know where
to buy track shoes.
So, just go nice and easy and see if
you can make it all the way around.
On your mark, get set, go!
I said go.
Yes, dear.
Much better!
But don't stop.
Do another lap.
(grunting)
Thank you, Lord.
- 4:09!
- (groans)
Look out, London!
(giggling)
You know, as I-I cross the finish
line, you're mumbling something.
I wasn't mumbling.
I was saying a prayer.
- Yeah? Why?
- Sure seems to make a difference.
You're shaving half a second
off your time every day.
- Just 'cause I'm getting into better shape.
- Mmm. Mm-hmm.
Come on, I'll jog
a warm-down lap with you.
- Oh, yeah?
- Mmm.
Come here.
- (gasps)
- Hey!
- (laughing)
- I'm so fast! (laughing)
(instrumental jazz)
Mmm.
Smelling good, Papa.
(speaking Italian)
- Sylvia, go check on the pie.
- (speaks Italian)
- Boys! Boys, stop. (Italian)
- Oh! Yes, Mama.
- Don't hurt your brother.
- Yes, of course not, Mama.
Be nice.
So, how's
the running going?
- She's got me out there every morning.
- Yeah?
I thought you were bad.
She's a taskmaster.
You think you can run
a 4:07 mile again?
I wouldn't be doing this
if I didn't.
Yeah, I'm just saying
you're not a kid anymore.
You still think you can
compete at the Olympic level?
Does Lou know?
He's so worried
about money, finding work.
I don't wanna say anything
until I have to.
Hey, come on. Lou bet Pete
he could run a 4:07 mile.
Hike!
Yeah. That's fast.
- Aw, man.
- That's Louie Zamperini!
Hey, guys!
Hiya, Louie!
- Hey, fellas.
- What are you doin' here?
I just thought I'd put
some miles on this track.
- You goin' for a run?
- You can't do a 4:07 mile if you don't run.
Well, can we
run with you?
Suppose if you like
lookin' at my backside.
I don't know. I was the league
champ in the mile last year.
Well, maybe I'll see you
at the '48 Olympics in London.
I'm not racing
Louis Zamperini.
Pete: All right, boys!
On your marks, get set!
Go!
(screaming, cheering)
(cheering continues)
(cheering)
(gasps)
(cheering) 4:07!
- (screams)
- Pete: Louis!
- (screaming continues)
- Cynthia: Louie!
(groaning)
We'll have another doctor
take a look.
There must be something
that they can do.
Army doc in Tokyo told me if I
hurt it again, it was all over.
Why didn't you
tell me that?
'Cause it doesn't matter.
Louie, we're supposed
to be open with each other.
You know, when I was a kid,
I fell down some stairs.
I was maybe six
or seven years old,
and I fell
and I-I hurt myself.
So I cursed.
I'd get up, and son of a gun
if I didn't fall...
again.
See, that's three times
that I fell,
and I remember
thinking to myself...
I thought so clearly
that it was God.
That he was doing this to me.
He was tripping me up. And I just
can't help but think that maybe,
just maybe
he's doing it again.
- Louie...
- No. No.
I was doing
what I was born to do.
I was back on the track.
It's just everything
is... whole again.
It's...
I'm just whole again.
You know, all the things, the
terrible things, they just go away.
It's just my heart pumping,
and my... my lungs pumping,
and my legs pumping.
And it's necessary.
I mean, do you see that?
Mm-hmm.
Tryin' to take it away,
it's...
We pushed too hard.
Was that it?
Is this some kind
of punishment?
- (people laughing)
- Harry: I was standin' there at the Hollywood Christmas parade,
and a cowboy comes up to me
on a big horse.
And I kid you not,
it was Roy Rogers.
Oh, there he is.
Ladies and gentlemen,
the late Louie Zamperini!
Sorry we're late.
Phil, come here.
- It's great to see you.
- It's good to see you too.
This is my wife, Cecile.
Call me Cecy.
Everyone does.
I've heard so much
about you.
- It's lovely to finally meet you.
- You too.
This is my wife,
Cynthia.
- Hello.
- Hi.
- (clears throat)
- Oh!
Yeah, this is Valerie. She
works for Universal Pictures.
- I'm just in the typing pool.
- Hello.
- So, what's with the limp?
- Oh, it's nothing.
I just, uh, tripped
going down some stairs.
Oh, hey, Phil was tellin' us about that
crash landing you guys had in that B-24.
Sounds like
a whale of a tale.
The only reason
I'm still alive
is because this guy was
the best pilot in the Pacific.
- Here's to Harold.
- Yeah.
- Harry: Who's Harold?
- Uh, Harold Brooks.
He was one
of our waist gunners.
He didn't make it back
alive that day.
Pardon me.
I need to powder my nose.
Would you mind goin' with Val
just to make sure she comes back?
- What?
I'll join you too.
Hey.
- Uh, give me another round and keep 'em coming.
- Yes, sir.
Whoa, slow down, Jack. I gotta get
a little food in my belly first.
Well, you could have
a breadstick.
Hey, how's it bein'
back home in Indiana?
Beats Japan.
I read in the paper
they can't find The Bird.
Rounded up all the rest of the
guards, but he flew the coop.
Who?
Jap prison guard.
Matsuhiro Watanabe.
Called him The Bird.
He was the worst
of the worst.
Real nightmare.
Harry: Hey, I just
read about this ex-POW,
he was headin' to work,
you know, still over there.
And he saw this Jap face
in the crowd.
Well, he gets suspicious,
so he follows him,
and dang if it ain't
a guard from his camp.
- What'd he do?
- Blew the whistle on him.
Now he's coolin' his heels
in Sugamo Prison.
Prison is too good
for The Bird.
- (all laughing)
- Harry: Okay, okay.
Okay, so I look up,
and these two lovebirds... gone.
Vanished, poof,
right into thin air.
So, about a week goes by,
I see Mr. Tornado.
I say, "Hey, bud.
Where'd you guys go?"
He looks at me,
and you know what he says?
"Fishing."
Yeah, fishing.
Can you believe that?
So romantic.
(laughing)
It's the truth, Harry.
We really did go fishing.
Yeah, well, I'm never
gonna believe that one.
(laughing)
- (Watanabe laughing) Hey, waiter.
What... What is this?
- Sir?
- What is this?
- It's rice, sir.
- I didn't order rice.
- It comes with the meal, sir.
- Yeah, but nobody ordered rice.
- Listen.
- Louie.
- I've had my fill of rice.
- Harry: Louie, come on.
Rice with dirt in it,
and bugs and maggots.
- What the heck is your problem?
- It's all right, Lou.
- It's not all right. What the heck is your problem?
- He didn't know.
- It was a mistake, pal.
- Hey, don't bring stuff that people didn't order!
(exhales)
(sighs)
The Bird can't
get away with this.
Somebody's gotta
catch The Bird.
Can't...
get away with it.
Gotta find him.
Find The Bird.
Come on.
Get up.
Gonna find him.
Oh, Louie.
(jingling)
- (gunfire)
- Aah!
Whoa!
Hold up!
(muffled screams)
(gasping)
You will obey me!
Please!
No!
man on radio: Gather here
Sunday afternoon every evening
to hear the word of God preached
in the power of his spirit
by Dr. Billy Graham
to the salvation...
At least eat
some toast.
I'm not hungry.
(sighs) I'm gonna call Pete.
He'll know what to do.
Don't...
Don't call Pete.
I can't do this
on my own.
Lookit...
last night was, uh...
it was just the booze.
I just need to get a job.
No, don't... Come on.
Where are you going?
To borrow Lila's phone.
Look, I don't want you
to call my brother!
- I don't want Pete knowing about it...
- About what?
You had nothing to hide
last night at the restaurant.
- You were acting crazy in front of everyone...
- I'm not crazy.
I had too much to drink.
Lou, let go...
Let go of me!
I'm pregnant.
What?
I'm gonna have a baby.
I'm two months pregnant.
Why didn't you say anything?
Because I'm scared.
Ever since you hurt your ankle,
you're so angry.
If you don't get help somehow, I
don't know what I'm going to do.
I'm-I'm sorry.
I need more than sorry, Lou.
(door closes)
doctor: Your physical was fine.
Your lab work came back normal.
In terms of helping with your inability
to sleep and your emotional instability,
we've had some results
with hypnosis,
electric shock treatment,
and narcosis therapy.
Narcosis therapy?
We use high doses of sodium
amytal and other barbiturates
to help you sleep for 18 to 20
hours a day for several days.
No, I...
I'm sure that that works
gangbusters for some guys,
but that just makes me want
a double scotch on the rocks.
Everyone needs help
at some point, Lou.
Even heroes.
I'm just a guy who did
nothing more than survive.
There's a lot of people that
would disagree with that.
In the prison camps,
they tried to take your humanity
and you wouldn't let them.
And now it's our job
to help you get through this.
I wish you could.
- Hey.
How'd it go?
Good.
Yeah, he said that
I'm not alone.
Does he wanna
see you again?
Yeah, same time next week.
What's in the bag?
Uh, nothin'.
Just got some foot powder, toothpaste,
a little bit of mouthwash.
Got you a Baby Ruth.
Louie?
Thank you.
(coughs)
- (grunts)
- Whoo!
So, what you hopin' for,
a boy or a girl?
What gives?
Lou?
Just some trouble in paradise.
(sighs)
I been havin' these dreams,
you know?
War dreams?
About Watanabe.
A lot?
Too much.
I just thought I'd be able
to forget everything.
(exhales)
You know, when we, uh, heard
that your plane went down,
I told Mom, I said, "If Louie can
get his feet on solid ground,
he's gonna be fine.
We just give him a scout knife
and a toothbrush,
he can take care
of himself."
Come on.
"A moment of pain is worth a
lifetime of glory," remember?
Come on.
Once you get that kid,
once you have that kid, that's gonna be the
only thing inside that brain of yours.
Huh?
All right?
- Is that so?
- Oh, yeah. Is that so?
- Yeah?
- Oh, you think you've got moves, huh?
I'm comin' for ya. You know, I
got something in this brain.
(cooing)
(laughing)
Shh, shh, shh, shh.
(laughs)
Okay. Shh, shh, shh, shh.
That's okay.
Ahh.
It's Cynthia.
It's to honor
the best part of me.
(crying)
Okay, yeah, all right.
All right.
Shh, shh, shh.
That's right.
(baby crying)
- No, no, it's okay.
- Shh, shh, shh.
I got it.
(crying continues)
Like a diamond in the sky
Twinkle, twinkle
Little star
How I wonder what you are
(chattering)
(chuckling)
Oh, Louie.
It's a real honor.
You know, when Harry told me
you were looking for work,
I said, "Lou Zamperini is
just the man we need."
Come on in.
Have a seat.
I was in the stands
at SC in '38
when you set the NCAA record
for the mile.
- What was it, four minutes and eight seconds, right?
- Yeah. That's right.
Pleased as punch
to have you in, Lou.
Let's talk buttermilk.
Sure.
I'm retooling.
I'm expanding, and powdered
milk is the future of Quinn's.
But first, why does the Torrance Tornado
wanna be in the dairy business?
I... You could work anywhere
with that USC degree.
I wish that were the case, Howard,
but I never graduated USC.
You didn't graduate?
It was part of the price
of goin' off to war.
I see.
I was under the impression
that you had.
See, everyone in corporate
has a college degree.
I could... Well, um,
how are you
makin' ends meet?
Um, when the army thought
I was dead,
they cut my mother a check
for ten grand.
She wouldn't cash it.
And when I came back alive,
they let me keep it.
I guess that takes the sting
out of bein' dead.
Yeah, I guess it does.
Okay, well, you know,
thank you for your time.
Yeah.
Good luck, Lou.
Thanks.
man: I got a five-to-one.
He moves ahead
in the home stretch.
I got a hundred bucks
in my pocket.
On me, Zamp.
Yeah, yeah, yeah,
what happened?
I got a filly
in the second race...
announcer: The young
evangelist Billy Graham
and song leader Cliff Barrows,
his wife Billie Barrows,
and Beverly Shea,
the gospel singer,
who cooperate with Christ for a Greater
Los Angeles in a great revival campaign.
Lila: Is he drinking again?
Cynthia: He says he
isn't, but it's a lie.
Just like saying he's out
looking for work every day.
Have you told him
you know the truth?
I don't think
it will make a difference.
God often uses difficulties
in our lives
as a way of preparing us
for our greater purpose.
I can't tell you what to do,
but I do know this.
Lou is worth the fight.
Sometimes I don't think
I know him at all.
Oh, sweetie,
it takes time.
It's like two trees planted
side-by-side.
Over the years they grow
in and around each other.
That's why widows like me
look so odd sometimes.
Sorry.
I shouldn't complain.
Oh.
Oh, no, don't.
Don't be. He had his
own demons like Lou.
But we faced them
down together.
Honey, hi, hi. This is a friend of mine.
It's Fred Porter.
And this is, uh...
this is my wife, Cynthia.
It's nice to meet ya.
Cynthia?
Hey, where ya been?
At church.
Hey, where's the checkbook?
It's in my purse.
Why?
What was that?
Oh, never mind.
Just...
Just give me the checkbook.
God.
What are you doin'?
That's what I was
going to ask you.
- Don't embarrass me like this.
- Why do you need the checkbook?
Because I'm going into
business with Fred.
What kind of business?
We're gonna buy surplus trucks from the
army, sell 'em to the Philippines.
The auction's tomorrow,
so I need to give him a check,
which he's gonna take to the
bank first thing in the morning.
How much?
It's like 3,000.
That's almost all the money that we
have left in your life insurance.
Yeah, you gotta spend money
in order to make money.
We're gonna make plenty
of money off this deal.
But what do you know about selling
trucks in the Philippines?
What do want me to do?
You want me to pump gas?
What's wrong with that?
Oh, yeah, I can see that now.
Hi, I'm the Torrance Tornado.
Why don't you come down and I'll
fill her up? Maybe change the oil.
It's a fat chance.
Now just give me the checkbook!
No.
You don't get to
tell me no.
That is my money, and I am the one
who died for it, so give me it.
You're drunk!
(cries)
You know, enough with the Saint
Cynthia of Miami Beach routine.
Now, you did not marry me because you thought
that I would make a good gas pump jockey.
I married you because I thought
you were a good man!
(screams)
Fantastic.
Louis: You got this?
You're the champ.
Yep, I'm doin'
all right.
(chuckling)
(grunts)
Hollowed-out Bible.
That's where I'll hide it.
Jap customs agent
won't mess with a Bible.
Mmm.
Oh, she called you?
Let's go.
You're comin' home with me.
Oh, beat it, will ya?
Well, you're not goin' back
to the apartment tonight.
Sylvia's staying there.
Is that... Well, it's a real
family reunion then.
What are you gonna do
with this? Huh?
- What are you gonna do with this?
- It's none of your business.
None of my business? Is this
none of my business too? Huh?
Round-trip airfare
to Tokyo? What?
- Are you and your little .38 plannin' a trip to Japan?
- Maybe we are.
You're a drunk.
Is this where you met
your new business partner?
You put up the G's and he puts up
what, another round of drinks?
Stay out of it, all right?
I know what I'm doing.
You haven't known what you're doing
since you walked out of that POW camp.
You need help, but you're not
man enough to accept it.
I'm not man enough?
I'm more of a man than
you'll ever be, big brother.
You never got caught up in a
sinking plane and almost drowned.
No, you never had them
hold you down,
stick a needle in your arm and pump you
full of garbage until you almost died,
and you certainly never had The Bird punch
you in the face over and over again
until you almost...
Now, see, you?
You were on your nice,
clean ship
with your nice,
clean sheets,
eatin' your Wheaties.
So, thank you
for your service, sailor.
Don't go back to
the apartment tonight.
Mm-hmm.
Leave Cynthia alone.
She doesn't want you there.
I don't know why they keep pushing
stuff like that. Look at that.
It's just...
(thunderclap)
(retches)
(groans)
Do you want to escape?
I asked you a question!
I wanna go home!
There is no home.
(gasps)
If you save me...
(groans)
(whistling)
(whistles, sighs)
There you go, buddy.
On the house.
Go to hell, Lou.
I do every night!
And what about me, huh?
When you come home
reeking of whiskey!
Or when you don't even
come home at all?
I'm taking Cissy,
and I'm going to Florida.
What're you gonna do? You're
gonna go home to your parents?
And tell them how stupid
you were to marry me?
- I can't take care of her and a drunk at the same time.
- So, what're you saying?
I'm saying I want a divorce.
It's 499
one way to Tokyo.
It's only 850
round trip, so...
Watanabe: You thought you were free.
Round trip is the way to go.
Don't look at me.
(muttering)
(voices whispering)
Look at me.
You are nothing.
(voices whispering)
Watanabe: You thought you were free.
You are nothing.
(muttering)
You... Don't... are nothing...
look at me...
(voices whispering)
- (baby crying)
- Cynthia: Lou?
- You...
- Lou.
are nothing.
Did I get your attention?
I'm, uh... I'm going out.
Lila asked me
to go to the revival, so...
Well, hide your wallet.
The circus is in town.
(crying)
You could come too. He's
supposed to be different.
Not like the old
revival shows.
Maybe he could help you.
Look at me.
This is why I should bow down to
God, to thank him for what I am?
I mean, don't you get it?
God is my enemy.
(crying)
It's okay.
Lou, I know about the whiskey
bottle in the toilet tank.
And the one under the sink.
You can't have the life
you had before the war,
so you've given up
on this one.
On me, on Cissy,
on your family.
You're not going to Japan.
You're not gonna kill The Bird.
It's a dream.
It's a sickness.
(Cissy wailing)
It's okay.
(no audible dialogue)
(elevator dings)
Tonight our message is
gonna be brief.
Now, I always say that.
(churchgoers laughing)
So I don't want you
to get too hopeful, okay?
(laughing)
pilot: This is the Green Hornet.
We're going down.
Mayday! Mayday! Mayday!
(screaming)
There's a lifeline, and that's
the hand of Jesus to hold onto.
I do not believe that any man,
that any man...
...without Jesus Christ.
Your tremendous
marital problems,
your physical problems,
your financial problems.
Help!
Graham: There are problems of sin
and habit that cannot be solved
without the person of
our Lord Jesus Christ.
Have you trusted Christ Jesus
as savior?
Tonight I'm glad to tell you
that the Lord Jesus can be
received, your sins forgiven...
your burdens lifted,
your problems solved by
turning your life over to him
and repenting of your sin and
turnin' to Jesus Christ as savior.
(muffled screams)
(gasps)
(muffled screaming)
Louie, wake up.
Louie. Louie.
Louie, shh.
Cissy's asleep.
I love you.
And I will not divorce you.
You can leave Cissy.
She's staying with Lila.
(sighs)
But you and I could go together.
I don't know any other way
to help you, Louie.
Please come with me.
Please.
Just say, "Yes, dear."
Yes, dear.
(gospel music playing)
Take it to the Lord
In prayer
Do thy friends despise
Forsake thee
Take it to the Lord
In prayer
In his arms
He'll take and shield thee
Thou wilt find
A solace there
Amen
Good evening.
Not what you expected?
The eighth chapter of John will be our
reading tonight, if you have your Bibles.
And we begin reading.
Jesus went unto
the Mount of Olives.
And early in the morning
he came again into the temple
and all the people came to him,
and he sat down under
the cover of darkness.
But let me tell you something.
Darkness does not hide
the eyes of God.
God takes down your life from the time
you were born to the time you die.
And when you stand before God
on that great judgment day,
you're gonna say, "Lord,
I'm not such a bad fellow."
Then they're gonna
pull down the screen
and they're gonna show
the moving picture of your life,
and you're gonna hear every thought
that was goin' through your head
of every minute of every day, and
every second of every minute.
And your own thoughts,
your own deeds,
are gonna condemn you as you
stand before God on that day.
And here tonight,
there's a drowning man,
a drowning woman, a drowning
boy, and a drowning girl,
all lost on the sea
of life,
not knowin' which way
to turn, but just looking...
just looking for some
type of hope for the future.
I don't care how dark or how
perplexing your problems might be.
It makes no difference.
Every problem solved,
every sin washed away.
Just reach out
and take the hand of Jesus.
I want everyone
to bow their heads
and close your eyes.
(panting)
(grunts)
I'm sorry.
(sighs)
Are you afraid, Lou?
It's not gonna hurt you.
You're not happy
the way you are.
You want to change.
You know, when he says,
"All heads bowed, all" whatever?
- Eyes closed.
- Yeah. Well?
See, they gotta be.
Now, you wanna know why?
You know, when I was a kid...
and I went to those crummy,
lying revivals?
I kept my eyes open...
and so I got to see all the pickpockets
who were stealing from the chumps.
Okay, here's a story.
It's set in the future.
Cissy is 15.
She has her first boyfriend. He's a
good-lookin' kid, comes from a nice family.
She brings him home one day
and doesn't tell us.
They come through the door
and there you are,
too drunk to remember that you're
supposed to hide in the bedroom
so that nobody sees you.
Instead, you start showing him
your notebooks.
Naturally,
the kid tries to get away,
but you hang on breathing
alcohol in his face.
And your daughter,
the light of your life,
the little baby that you wouldn't
let anybody else touch...
she is so ashamed of her father
that she wants to die.
Graham: Why, you ask yourself,
why is God silent
while good men suffer?
Why doesn't he stop
the pestilence?
the wars?
Why doesn't he stop
the suffering in this world?
Well, that is the question that has mystified
people from generation to generation.
If you look into
the heavens tonight,
on this beautiful
California night,
I can see the stars and I can
see the footprints of God.
(Louis wheezing)
And I say to myself,
"My father, my heavenly father,
- he hung them there with his flaming fingertip...
- Yes.
and he holds them there by the
power of his omnipotent hand."
Amen.
What God asks of men
is faith.
You can't see him,
you can't hear him.
God makes himself unseen.
But I believe that God is
still performing miracles.
churchgoers: Amen!
I believe that God is
still healing bodies.
still healing hearts.
I believe that God is
still transforming lives.
churchgoers: Amen.
And he says to each of us,
"If you suffer, I'll give you
the grace to go forward."
But because
you can't hear him,
because you can't see him
in his silent of heaven...
- Amen.
- you turn away from him.
And let me tell you, brother, that's
the most dangerous place to be,
to sit there day after day,
and never accept salvation.
- Amen.
- Hardening your soul day after day, night after night,
- until it's too late.
- Yes.
That God cannot even reach
into your heart of hearts
and save you from yourself.
Amen!
(scattered applause)
I want everyone to bow their
heads, close your eyes.
(gasps)
Lou.
Don't leave!
You can leave while I'm
preaching, but not now.
If you save me...
Watanabe: Look at me.
Look at me.
No.
Look at me!
Graham: This is it.
God has spoken to you.
It is time.
Come on.
If you save me...
I will serve you forever.
(Cissy whining)
He kept me alive...
through everything...
for this.
The war is over.
Where's Watanabe?
Where's The Bird?
We're pretty sure
he's still alive.
We will keep
lookin' for him, Captain.
Then do me a favor.
If he ever turns up...
will you give him this
for me?
Tell him to take a look at
Matthew, chapter six, verse 14.
"For if you forgive other people
when they sin against you...
your heavenly father
will also forgive you."
It's okay.
It's over.
It's gonna be okay.
I forgive you.
- (shutter clicks)
- I forgive you. God bless you.
It's okay.
Okay?
Hai.
God bless you.
It's okay.
I forgive you.
God bless you.
It's okay.
I forgive you.
It's over.
It's okay.
God bless you, sir.
During the war, Louis Zamperini
was an American war hero.
He was 47 days on a life raft
floating around in the Pacific.
And he began to drink
when he came home,
and he was confused and frustrated
and mixed up in his life.
And he, too,
wandered into that tent
on Washington and Hill
in Los Angeles
and found Christ
as his savior.
And tonight
he is the director
of the Victory Boys Camp for
juvenile delinquents in Los Angeles,
giving his full life now to try to
rehabilitate juvenile delinquents
and lead them to a knowledge
of Jesus Christ.
Louis, we're delighted to
have you with us tonight.
Thank you, Billy.
It was after the war and with
about $10,000 in back pay
from two and a half years
in prison camp
and also, uh, collecting my
life insurance for being dead,
I became extremely selfish,
cynical, and greedy
until the, uh, wind was finally
let out of my sails.
I lost everything that I possessed
outside of my wife and little girl,
and it was then that my wife
was able to persuade me
into going down
to that meeting.
I asked the Lord Jesus Christ to
come into my heart and save me.
And, of course, he did.
(choir vocalizing)
Subtitles by explosiveskull
Resync by GoldenBeard
Colored by novabros
I was looking for an answer
For a way to stop the pain
When you came to me
With healing
I was looking for a fix
When you broke these chains
What a beautiful feeling
I was looking for a way
Back home
When I found healing
For my wounded heart
I found mercy
In your open arms
I found freedom
When you set me free
I found myself
When you found me
I was runnin' reckless
- ? Now I'm runnin' home ?
- ? When you found me
Yeah, I finally found
My redemption
You found me
And you made me whole
Yeah, I didn't know
That I'd been missing
Till you found me
Louis: These are kids
that quit high school.
They haven't
accomplished anything.
So I have a chart
that all during the week they
gotta pass everything, boating...
And I get 'em up on the top
of the mountain
and teach them glacial
survival and rescue,
so that at the end of
the week I show the kids...
"Look at the things you've
accomplished all week.
They weren't easy.
It shows that you can accomplish
anything you want.
Now, you go back
and finish your time
and then go back and
get your high school diploma
and that's the first big
accomplishment of your life."
While I was still on my knees, my
life changed in a matter of moments,
because I knew I was
through getting drunk,
and I knew that
I forgave my guards,
and I knew it was a miracle
because I forgave The Bird.
And that was
the first night,
first night in two and a half
years I didn't have a nightmare,
and I haven't had one since.
Forgiveness
must be complete.
Uh, no matter
who the person is.
And I've had a few enemies,
even the last few years,
and the only way I can forgive 'em is
to pray for 'em, and that's what I do.
Instead of hatin' 'em
I pray for 'em.
You just have to buckle up
and go onto greater things.
The guy says, "Aren't you...
Aren't you the guy that spent
47 days on a raft?"
I said, "Yeah."
He says, "You're
entitled to travel pay."
I said, "What?"
He said...
That's a very
efficient guy.
He said, "Seven dollars
and 60 cents a day times 47."
He made out a bill,
mailed it to Washington,
and a week later
we got a response,
and it said,
uh, "Request denied.
Reason: travel unauthorized."
(audience laughing)
'Cause I found
Healing
For my wounded
Heart
I found mercy
In your open arms
I found freedom
When you set me free
I found myself
When you found me
Farewell to darkness
And the silence
Anger from the violence
Is forgiven
And I let it go
When you found me